<details>
<summary>Scenario 1: Create a Subnet</summary>

#### Task 1: Create a subnet named "management" within the "neu_vnet" virtual network in the "northeurope" region
1. The Managment Team based in the North Europe region will soon have resources deployed that only they will use. Due to the nature of them, they'll need to be deployed to their own subnet. Within "vnet-neu-01" create a subnet called "management".
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 2: Configure Network Security Group (NSG) Rules</summary>

#### Task 1: Create rules to allow inbound traffic
1. Create NSG rules to allow inbound traffic on port 80 and port 443 for the "web" subnet within the "uks_vnet" virtual network.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 3: Create VPN Gateway</summary>

#### Task 1: Create a virtual network gateway in UK South
1. Create a virtual network gateway named "vpn-gateway" in the "uks_vnet" virtual network to enable site-to-site VPN connectivity.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 4: Implement Network Peering</summary>

#### Task 1: Investigate issues with VNet Peering
1. Users in UK South are able to connect to resources in West Europe and vice versa, which is network peered. Users in West Europe are able to connect network peered with North Europe, and vice versa, as they are network peered. However Users in UK South are not able to access resources in North Europe. Investigate why, and rectify.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 5: Configure DNS Settings</summary>

#### Task 1: Configure custom DNS settings to use Azure DNS
1. Configure custom DNS settings for the "neu_vnet" virtual network to use Azure DNS
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 6: Implement Service Endpoints</summary>

#### Task 1: Enable service endpoints for "neu_vnet" virtual network
1. We want to prevent public access to Storage Accounts within the newly created 'management' subnet, and keeping traffic destined to Azure Storage on the Azure backbone network.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 7: Configure VPN Diagnostics </summary>

#### Task 1: Enable VPN diagnostics for the "vpn-gateway" created in Scenario 3
1. Enable VPN diagnostics for the "vpn-gateway" in the "uks_vnet" virtual network to monitor VPN connections.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 8: Implement Network Watcher</summary>

#### Task 1: Create and configure a Network Watcher to monitor and diagnose network issues for all subnets that have compute resources
1. Create and configure a Network Watcher instance named "network-watcher" to monitor and diagnose network issues.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 9: Implement Azure Firewall</summary>

#### Task 1: Deploy an Azure Firewall instance named "azure-firewall" in the "uks_vnet" virtual network to be used in future.
1. Create an Azure Firewall "uks_vnet" virtual network. Firewall MUST meet the following requirements:
- Provide Application Level FDQN Filtering for HTTPS/SQL
- Provide Network Address Translation services
- Be able to support Availability Zones
- Autoscale to meet expected traffic up to 250 Mbps
- Centrally Managed via Firewall Manager
- Provide full logging and SIEM integration
- Ability for future DevOps integration using REST/CLI/PS/Terraform/Templates
- Enable Threat intelligence-based filtering for your firewall to alert for any traffic from/to known malicious IP addresses, FQDNs, and URLs. 
- Must be as cheap as possible

</details>
