<details>
<summary>Scenario 1: Connecting to Virtual Machines over the Internet</summary>

#### Task 1: Connect to 3 Virtual Machines
1. Navigate to the Virtual Machine tab to see the Virtual Machines available.
2. Click on Dodgy-Science to view the VM, and click on 'Connect'.
3. You will now see the Public IP address associated with that Virtual Machine. Click on 'Download RDP File' and open the file once it's downloaded.
4. Once you open the RDP file and click Connect, you will need to provide the Username and Password (If you are unsure of the Username/Password, click on Password Reset on the VM in the Azure Portal to reset the password). 
<br>
<b>NOTE</b> - The reason Users will be reporting issues with connecting to the Virtual Machines will be because some of the Virtual Machines will NOT have a Public IP address. So right now, they won't be able to be connected to over the Internet via RDP.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 2: Ensuring Virtual Machines can be connected to via RDP</summary>

#### Task 1: Identifying affected Virtual Machines
1. To make sure all of the Virtual Machines are able to be connected to over the Internet via RDP, you need to investigate what VM's do NOT have a Public IP address assigned to them. Navigate to the Virtual Machine tab to view the Virtual Machines available.
2. Check the Virtual Machines avaialble and check to see if there is a Public IP address listed against the Virtual Machine. If there is not, make a note of the Virtual Machine.

#### Task 2: Attaching Public IP's to Virtual Machines
1. Go to the Azure portal and log in. In the left navigation pane, click on "Virtual machines" and select Your VM.
2. Click on the virtual machine to which you want to attach a Public IP address, and click on Network Settings
3. Under Essentials, search for 'Public IP Address' and click on 'Configure' to setup a Public IP address.
4. Click on the existing NIC (Or click 'Add' if one is not present and complete the on-screen steps) to edit the IP Configuration.
5. Check the 'Public IP Address' box
6. Under 'Public IP address' either select a pre-existing Public IP address to use, or click on 'Create a Public IP Address' to set one up. If you click on 'Create a Public IP Address' you will be prompted to provide a name, and to select a SKU (Basic/Standard). Once done, click OK and Save.
7. The VM will now have a Public IP assigned to it, and you can now connect to it vis SSH/RDP.

<b>NOTE</b> - If you are unable to connect to the VM using the Public IP, check to make sure that the Network Security Group associated with the VM has an Inbound Rule to allow traffic from the Internet over Port 3389.
<br>
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 3: Create 3 Virtual Machines</summary>

#### Task 1: Create Virtual Machines
1. Navigate to the Azure portal and sign in with your Azure account.
2. In the left navigation pane, click on "Virtual machines" and click on the "+ Create Virtual Machine" button to create a new virtual machine.
3. In the "Basics" tab enter the following details:<br>
Subscription: Choose your subscription.<br>
Resource Group: Select rg-weu-compute.<br>
Virtual machine name: Enter a name.<br>
Region: West Europe.<br>
Availability options: Select "No Infrastructure Redundancy Required."<br>
Image: Choose "Debian" and then select "Debian 11."<br>
Size: Standard_B1ms.<br>
Authentication type: Select "SSH public key."<br>
Username: Enter your desired username.<br>
SSH public key: Enter your SSH public key - if you do not have one, select "Generate New Key Pair"<br>
Key Pair Name: Enter a name for your SSH Key Pair<br>
Inbound port rules: Select "Allow selected ports" and choose "SSH (22)."<br>
4. In the "Disks" tab, you can leave the default settings or adjust as needed.
5. In the "Networking" tab enter the following details:
Virtual network: Select vnet-weu-01.<br>
Subnet: Select rg-weu-compute.<br>
Public IP: Accept the default, or click on 'Create New' and enter a SKU and for Routing Preference select 'Microsoft Network'<br>
NIC Security Group: Basic<br>
Public Inbound Ports: Allow selected ports<br>
Select Inbound Ports: SSH (22)<br>
Delete Public IP and NIC when VM is deleted: Check the option<br>
Accept the remaining Netowrk settings and click 'Review and Create'<br>
6. Once the VM has been created, repeat steps 1-5 two more times.<br>

#### Task 2: Access the Virtual Machines from the Internet to confirm availability
1. Once the VM deployment is complete, go to the VM's overview page.
2. Note the public IP address assigned to your VM.
3. Use an SSH client to connect to your VM using the public IP address and the SSH private key corresponding to the public key you provided during VM creation.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 4: Create 2 Virtual Machine Scale Set in West Europe</summary>

#### Task 1: Create Virtual Machine Scale Set with Manual Scaling
1. Navigate to the Azure portal and sign in with your Azure account.
2. In the search bar, search for "Virtual Machine Scale Sets" and click on the "+ Create" button.
3. In the "Basics" tab enter the following details:<br>
Subscription: Choose your subscription.<br>
Resource Group: Select rg-weu-compute.<br>
Region: West Europe.<br>
Name: Enter a unique name for your VMSS.<br>
Image: Choose "Windows" and then select "Windows 11."<br>
Size: Standard_B1ms.<br>
Authentication type: Select "Password" and provide the necessary credentials.<br>
Inbound port rules: Add a rule for RDP (3389).<br>
4. In the "Networking" tab:
Virtual network: Select vnet-weu-01.<br>
Network Interface: Select an existing NIC or create a new one, using Subnet 'rg-weu-compute'.<br>
5. In the "Scaling" tab:<br>
Instance count: Set it to 3 (or your desired number).<br>
Scaling type: Select "Manual."<br>
6. In the "Management" tab, leave the settings as default.
7. In the "Health probes" tab, configure settings as needed or leave the default.
8. Click "Review and Create" to create the VMSS.
<br>
NOTE - This will create a VM Scale Set where you can manually change the number of instances available. You can test this by changing the minumum count to 4, navigating to the Virtual Machine Scale Sets, clicking on "Scaling" and selecting "Run History". You can now see the instance count over a period of time to confirm if the instance count scaled up or down.
<br>

#### Task 2: Create Virtual Machine Scale Set with Custom Scaling
1. Navigate to the Azure portal and sign in with your Azure account.
2. In the search bar, search for "Virtual Machine Scale Sets" and click on the "+ Create" button.
3. In the "Basics" tab enter the following details:<br>
Subscription: Choose your subscription.<br>
Resource Group: Select rg-weu-compute.<br>
Region: West Europe.<br>
Name: Enter a unique name for your VMSS.<br>
Image: Choose "Windows" and then select "Windows 11."<br>
Size: Standard_B1ms.<br>
Authentication type: Select "Password" and provide the necessary credentials.<br>
Inbound port rules: Add a rule for RDP (3389).<br>
4. In the "Networking" tab:<br>
Virtual network: Select vnet-weu-01.<br>
Network Interface: Select an existing NIC or create a new one, using Subnet 'rg-weu-compute'.<br>
5. In the "Scaling" tab:
Scaling type: Select "Custom."<br>
Instance count: Set it to 3 (or your desired minimum instances).<br>
Maximum instance count: Set it to 10.<br>
Scale out: Configure the conditions for scaling out:<br>
Operator: Greater than<br>
Metric name: Percentage CPU<br>
Threshold: 70<br>
Duration: 10 minutes<br>
Change count: 2<br>
Scale in: Configure the conditions for scaling in:<br>
Operator: Less than<br>
Metric name: Percentage CPU<br>
Threshold: 25<br>
Duration: 10 minutes<br>
Change count: 1<br>
6. In the "Management" tab, leave the settings as default.
7. In the "Health probes" tab, configure settings as needed or leave the default.
8. Click "Review and Create" to create the VMSS.
<br>
NOTE - This will create a VM Scale Set where you can manually change the number of instances available. You can test this by changing the minumum count to 4, navigating to the Virtual Machine Scale Sets, clicking on "Scaling" and selecting "Run History". You can now see the instance count over a period of time to confirm if the instance count scaled up or down.
<br>

</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 5: Virtual Machine Password Reset</summary>

#### Task 1: Reset Password for Virtual Machines
1. Go to the Azure portal. In the left navigation pane, click on "Virtual machines" and select Your VM
2. Click on the VM for which you want to reset the password.
3. In the VM's left navigation pane, click on "Reset password" under the "Support + troubleshooting" section.
4. Choose the appropriate configuration based on your needs:<br>
<br>
<b>Reset password:</b> Allows you to reset the password without changing the configuration.
<b>Reset configuration only:</b> Resets the configuration without changing the password.
<b>Reset password and configuration:</b> Resets both the password and configuration.<br>

Enter the new password and confirm it.
5. Save Configuration:
6. Click "Update" to apply the changes.

#### Task 2: Securely Save the Credentials
1. In the Azure portal, click on "All services" in the left sidebar. Type "Key vault" in the search bar and select it.
2. Select the Key Vault "weu-key-vault-01"
3. Inside the Key Vault, under "Settings," select "Secrets." 
4. Add a new secret for each VM, providing the passwords.
5. Under "Access policies," click on "Add Access Policy" and choose the "Projects Department" and under Secrets select "Get" and "List" and click apply.
<br>
<b>NOTE</b> - If you find yourself unable to access the Key Vault, create an Access Policy for yourself to add secrets and retry again.<br>

</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 6: Prevent Public Access to Virtual Machines and connect only through Bastion</summary>

#### Task 1: Prevent Public Access to Virtual Machines
1. In the Azure portal, click on "Virtual machines" and select a VM and go to "Network Settings".
2. Under "Essentials" click on Public IP Address
3. Click on Dissociate, and accept the prompt to dissociate it from the VM
4. Click Delete to delete the Public IP resource
5. Go back into the Virtual Machine, click on "Network Settings" and confirm there is a Private IP and no Public IP.
6. Repeat steps 1-5 for all Virtual Machines

#### Task 2: Create a Bastion Host in North Europe
<b>Note</b>: This Bastion Host has been configured to deploy, but not work on purpose. In this case, the SKU is set to Basic which only allows for connections to VM's within the same VNet and not IP-based connections. You can verify this by checking the Connection Troubleshooter within the exist Bastion deployment.<br>
To remedy this, we could either delete and re-deploy Bastion in case there are other issues, or change the existing Bastion SKU type to 'Standard' and then enable IP-based connections. This will allow you to connect to VM's in other VNets and by IP-based connections.<br><br>
For demonstration purposes, we will delete and re-deploy Bastion.<br>

1. Navigate to Bastion, and delete the existing Bastion called 'Bastion'.
2. Navigate to a VM that had been deployed to North Europe - in this case, 'black-science'.
3. Click on 'Connect via Bastion' to be taken to the Bastion option.
4. You can click on 'Deploy Bastion' and it will automatically deploy Bastion and the associated resources with it (You will see them displayed on screen at this point), or 'Configure Manually' to manually specify what will be deployed. In this case, we will select 'Configure Manually' to cover what resources are needed.
5. You will be presented with a 'Create a Bastion' wizard. Select the following options: <br>
Resource Group: rg-neu-compute<br>
Instance Details: Bastion-v2 (This can be any name you want)<br>
Region: North Europe<br>
Tier: Standard<br>
Instance Count: 2
Virtual Network: bastion_vnet (You can opt to create a new one if you want)<br>
Subnet: AzureBastionSubnet (This MUST be named AzureBastionSubnet, and the Subnet Range must be within the VNet Address space and be /26 or higher)<br>
Public IP Address: bastionpip (You can opt to create a new one if you want)<br>
Click on Advanced and ensure 'IP-Based Connection' is enabled<br>
Click on Review and Create to deploy the resource, and create once it has passed validation - this will take between 10-15 minutes.<br>
6. Once deployed navigate back to the 'black-science' VM and click on 'Connect via Bastion'
7. You will now see a prompt to enter a Username and Password - enter them to connect to the VM (You can reset the password if you do not remember it)
<b>NOTE</b>: If the option to connect via Bastion doesn't appear under the VM, you can navigate to Bastion, click on Connect, and connect to the VM using the Private IP address of the VM.

#### Task 3: Confirm Connectivity
1. Connect using RDP/SSH: Repeat the RDP connection method from Scenario 1, and the SSH connection medthod from Scenario 3. This should fail to connect.
2. Connect via Bastion: In the Azure portal, select the VM, click on "Connect," and choose "Bastion" as the connection type as covered in Task 2. Attempt to connect from a VM based in UK South and West Europe.
<br>
<b>NOTE</b>: An alternative to this would be to introduce Network Security Groups instead of deleting Public IP's, and set the inbound rules to deny access to incoming connections from the Internet over Ports 22, 80, 443, and 3389, or all). This would leave the VM's publicly available but any attempts from the Internet using SSH, Ports 80 and 443, or RDP, would not reach the VM. This, however, doesn't mean that someone can't connect if there is a port that has not been denied, or if the VM is removed from the Network Security Group.<br>

</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 7: Create an Availability Set in West Europe</summary>

#### Task 1: Create Virtual Machine
1. In the Azure portal, click on "All services", type "Availability sets" in the search bar and select it.
2. Click on "Add."
3. Fill in the required details:<br>
Name: Specify a name for the availability set.<br>
Resource Group: Choose the appropriate resource group.<br>
Region: Select "West Europe."<br>
Fault Domains: 2<br>
Update Domains: 8<br>
Operating System: Choose "Windows."<br>
Review + Create:<br>
Click on "Review + create," review the settings, and click "Create."<br>

<b>NOTE</b> - once an Availability Set has been created, you can add Virtual Machines to the Availability Set.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 8: Backup Virtual Machines in UK South</summary>

#### Task 1: Create a Recovery Services Vault to backup Virtual Machines in UK South
1. In the "All services" pane, search for "Recovery Services Vaults" and click on "Recovery Services Vaults."
2. Click on the "+ Add" button to create a new vault.
3. Fill in the required information, such as a unique name, subscription, resource group, and region.
4. Review other settings and click "Review + create" and then "Create."

#### Task 2: Backup Virtual Machines
1. If your VMs are running Windows, ensure that the Azure Backup Agent is installed. You can download it from the Azure portal. 
If your VMs are running Linux, you might need to install the Azure Recovery Services agent. Follow the instructions in the Azure portal to set up Linux VMs.
2. In the Recovery Services Vault, click on "Backup policies" in the left navigation pane.
3. Click on "+ Add" to create a new Backup Policy.
4. In the "Name and target" section:<br>
Name: Enter a unique name for your Backup Policy.<br>
Backup type: Select "Azure Virtual Machine."<br>
5. In the "Items to backup" section:
Backup goal: Choose "Virtual Machine."<br>
Backup items: Choose the VMs you want to include in the backup.<br>
6. In the "Schedule" section:
Backup frequency: Choose "Daily."<br>
Time: Set it to "23:00."<br>
Days: Select "Sunday."<br>
7. In the "Retention" section:
Snapshot retention: Set it to "5 days."<br>
Weekly retention: Enable it and set it to "4 weeks."<br>
8. In the "Advanced" section:
Monthly retention: Enable it.<br>
Retention range for monthly backups: Set it to "12 Months."<br>
Day: Choose "First."<br>
Day of the week: Choose "Monday."<br>
Time: Set it to "23:00."<br>
9. Click "Create" to save the Backup Policy.
10. Go back to the "Backup Items" section in the Recovery Services Vault.
11. Select the VMs in UK South that you want to apply the Backup Policy to.
12. Click on "Backup policies" and then select the policy you created.
13. Click "Update" to apply the Backup Policy to the selected VMs.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 9: Add Additional Data Disk to Virtual Machines running Windows 11 in UK South</summary>

#### Task 1: Create Data Disk
1. In the left navigation pane, click on "All services" and search for "Disks".
2. Click on "Disks".
3. Click on "+ Add" to create a new disk.
4. Fill in the required information:<br>
Subscription: Choose your subscription.<br>
Resource group: "rg-uks-compute"<br>
Disk name: Enter a unique name for your disk.<br>
Region: "UK South"<br>
Account type: Choose "Premium SSD."<br>
Replication: Choose "Locally Redundant Storage (LRS)."<br>
Size (GiB): Specify the size of the disk.<br>
5. Click "Review + create" and then click "Create."<br>
6. Wait for the deployment to complete. You can monitor the status in the Azure portal.<br>

#### Task 2: Attach to Virtual Machines
1. In the Azure portal, go to "Virtual machines" in the left navigation pane. Click on the virtual machine to which you want to attach the Premium SSD disk.
2. In the VM's left navigation pane, click on "Disks".
3. Click on "+ Add data disk" to attach a new disk.
4. In the "Name" dropdown, select the Premium SSD disk you created earlier.
5. Set the "LUN" (Logical Unit Number) if you have multiple disks attached.
6. Configure other settings such as caching and size.
7. Click "Save" to attach the disk.
<br>
<b>NOTE</b> - The disk will be attached to the VM, but it will be unformatted and unusable. You will need to connect to the VM, open the Disk Management tool on Windows or use fdisk/parted on Linux to initialize, partition, and format the newly attached disk.

#### Task 3: Save Data to Disk
1. Connect to a VM.
2. Open File Explorer and navigate to the New Drive you have attached.
3. Create a .txt file and save it onto the new disk.

#### Task 4: Attach Disks to remaining Virtual Machines.
1. Repeat Tasks 1-3 for each Virtual Machine in UK South.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 10: Create Shared Disk for Virtual Machines in North Europe</summary>

#### Task 1: Create Shared Disk
1. In the left navigation pane, click on "All services" and search for "Disks".
2. Click on "Disks".
3. Click on "+ Add" to create a new disk.
4. Fill in the required information:<br>
Subscription: Choose your subscription.<br>
Resource group: "rg-neu-compute"<br>
Disk name: Enter a unique name for your disk.<br>
Region: "North Europe"<br>
Account type: Choose "Premium SSD."<br>
Replication: Choose "Locally Redundant Storage (LRS)."<br>
Size (GiB): Specify the size of the disk.<br>
Share across VMs: Select "Yes" to enable sharing across multiple VMs.<br>
Click "Review + create" and then click "Create."<br>
5. Wait for the deployment to complete. You can monitor the status in the Azure portal.<br>

#### Task 2: Attach to Virtual Machines
1. In the Azure portal, go to "Virtual machines" in the left navigation pane.
2. Click on each of the virtual machines in North Europe to which you want to attach the shared disk.
3. In the VM's left navigation pane, click on "Disks."
4. Click on "+ Add data disk" to attach the shared disk.
5. In the "Name" dropdown, select the shared disk you created earlier.
6. Set the "LUN" (Logical Unit Number) if you have multiple disks attached (ensure each VM has a unique LUN).
7. Configure other settings such as caching and size.
8. Click "Save" to attach the shared disk.
9. Repeat steps 2-6 for each virtual machine you want to attach the shared disk.
<br>
<b>NOTE</b> - The disk will be attached to the VM, but it will be unformatted and unusable. You will need to connect to the VM, open the Disk Management tool on Windows or use fdisk/parted on Linux to initialize, partition, and format the newly attached disk.

#### Task 3: Save Data to Disk from each Virtual Machine
1. Connect to a VM.
2. Open File Explorer and navigate to the New Drive you have attached.
3. Create a .txt file and save it onto the new disk.
4. Repeat Steps 1-3 for each VM in North Europe.
<br>
<b>NOTE</b> - Data saved to the Shared Disk will NOT be shared between Virtual Machines, as it's a Shared Disk (With 'partitions' for each VM) and not a Shared Drive.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 11: Create Managed Identities for all Virtual Machines and Virtual Machine Scale Sets</summary>

#### Task 1: Create Managed Identity
1. In the left navigation pane, click on "Virtual machines" and select a VM.
2. Click on the VM for which you want to add a managed identity.
3. In the VM's left navigation pane, click on "Identity."
4. Set "Status" to "On" for System-Assigned Managed Identity.
5. Click "Save" to apply the changes.
6. Repeat for all Virtual Machines in all Regions
7. In the left navigation pane, click on "Virtual Machine Scale Sets" and select a VMSS.
2. Click on the VMSS for which you want to add a managed identity.
3. In the VMSS's left navigation pane, click on "Identity."
4. Set "Status" to "On" for System-Assigned Managed Identity.
5. Click "Save" to apply the changes.
6. Repeat for all VMSS's in all Regions

<b>NOTE</b> - Enabling the system-assigned managed identity will automatically create a managed identity for the VM or VMSS. You will need to review what RBAC permissions the VM/VMSS need, and at what level it needs to be assigned to - ie if they need access to App Config Stores (App Configuration Data Reader), or Key Vault (Key Vault Reader), etc.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 12: Create Function App for later use in UK South, North Europe, and West Europe</summary>

#### Task 1: Create Function App
1. Within the Azure Portal, search for 'Function App' and select the icon that appears.
2. Within the Function App tab, click on 'Create'
3. You will now see a 'Create Function App' wizard - use the following options to create one in UK South:<br>
Resource Group: rg-uks-compute<br>
Function App Name: (You can create your own name - but it MUST be unique)<br>
Do you wnat to deploy code or container image: Code<br>
Runtime Stack: .NET<br>
Version: 6 (LTS) Isolated<br>
Region: UK South<br>
OS: Linux<br>
Hosting Options: Consumption (Serverless)<br>
Click Storage<br>
4. Click 'Create New' and provide a unique Storage Account name. Click Networking when ready.<br>
5. Leave as default, and move onto Deployment.<br>
6. Ensure Continuous Deployment is left as 'Disable' and click on Review and Create.<br>
7. Repeat Steps 3-6 for North Europe and West Europe.<br>

</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 13: Create Container Registry for later use in UK South</summary>

#### Task 1: Create Container Registry
1. In the Azure portal, type "Container Registries" in the search bar and select it.
2. Within the Container Registry blade, click on Create Container Registry.<br>
Fill in the following details:<br>
Resource Group: rg-uks-compute<br>
Registry Name: Specify a unique name.<br>
LocationL UK South<br>
Region: Select "UK South."<br>
SKU: Basic<br>
Click on Review and Create, and then create the resource.<br>

3. Once created, go into Access Control and add the following Role Assignments to the Group 'Projects':
ACRDelete<br>
ACRPull<br>
ACRPush<br>
</details>