<details>
<summary>Scenario 1: Create a Subnet</summary>

#### Task 1: Create a subnet named "management" within the "neu_vnet" virtual network in the "northeurope" region
1. Navigate to the Azure portal and locate the "neu_vnet" virtual network.
2. Inside the virtual network settings, choose "Subnets" and then "Add".
3. Enter the name "management" for the subnet.
4. Configure the address range for the subnet.
5. Save the changes to create the subnet.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 2: Configure Network Security Group (NSG) Rules</summary>

#### Task 1: Create rules to allow inbound traffic
1. Find the "uks_vnet" virtual network in the Azure portal.
2. Navigate to the "Subnets" section and select the "web" subnet.
3. Associate the appropriate NSG with the subnet.
4. Configure inbound security rules to allow traffic on ports 80 and 443.
5. Save the NSG configuration.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 3: Create VPN Gateway</summary>

#### Task 1: Create a virtual network gateway in UK South
1. Locate the "uks_vnet" virtual network in the Azure portal.
2. Create a Subnet called GatewaySubnet, with an IP range within the uks_vnet.
3. Once the GatewaySubnet is create, within the Vnet click "Create Gateway" and select the appropriate gateway type (VPN Gateway Gen 1).
4. Configure the gateway settings, including SKU (Basic) and VPN type.
5. Specify the subnet GatewaySubnet for the gateway.
6. Review and create the gateway.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 4: Implement Network Peering</summary>

#### Task 1: Investigate issues with VNet Peering
Users in UK South are able to connect to resources in West Europe and vice versa, which is network peered. Users in West Europe are able to connect network peered with North Europe, and vice versa, as they are network peered. However Users in UK South are not able to access resources in North Europe. Investigate why, and rectify.

1. Virtual Network Peering does NOT support Transitive Peering. Because UK South is peered with UK West, and UK West is peered with North Europe, users in UK South would not be able to connect to resources in North Europe. They would require an additional Virtual Network Peering from UK South to North Europe. We need to establish network peering between the "uks_vnet" and "neu_vnet" virtual networks to enable cross-region communication.
2. Navigate to the settings of the "neu_vnet" virtual network.
3. Choose "Peerings" and then "Add".
4. Specify the peer network as the "uks_vnet" virtual network.
5. Configure the peering settings, including access permissions and traffic forwarding.
6. Repeat the process on the "uks_vnet" virtual network.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 5: Configure DNS Settings</summary>

#### Task 1: Configure custom DNS settings to use Azure DNS
1. Access the DNS settings for the "neu_vnet" virtual network.
2. Choose "Custom DNS" and specify the Azure DNS server addresses - you can either create your own DNS Server with a VM, or use a public DNS address, but by default Azure will use Azure DNS Servers. For demonstration purposes, you can add 4.4.4.4 and 8.8.8.8 or you can use an Azure DNS Server address.
3. Save the changes to apply the custom DNS settings.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 6: Implement Service Endpoints</summary>

#### Task 1: Enable service endpoints for "neu_vnet" virtual network
1. Locate the "neu_vnet" virtual network in the Azure portal.
2. Navigate to the "Subnets" section and select the "management" subnet.
3. Enable service endpoints and select Azure Storage from the list of available services.
4. Save the changes to enable service endpoints for Azure Storage.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 7: Configure VPN Diagnostics </summary>

#### Task 1: Enable VPN diagnostics for the "vpn-gateway" created in Scenario 3
1. Locate the "vpn-gateway" resource in the Azure portal.
2. Choose "Diagnostics settings" and then "Turn on diagnostics".
3. Configure the diagnostics settings, including storage account and retention policy.
4. Save the changes to enable VPN diagnostics.
</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 8: Implement Network Watcher</summary>

#### Task 1: Create and configure a Network Watcher to monitor and diagnose network issues for all subnets that have compute resources
Azure Network Watcher is a regional service that enables you to monitor and diagnose conditions at a network scenario level in, to, and from Azure. Scenario level monitoring enables you to diagnose problems at an end to end network level view. Network diagnostic and visualization tools available with Network Watcher help you understand, diagnose, and gain insights to your network in Azure.

Network Watcher is enabled in an Azure region through the creation of a Network Watcher instance in that region. This instance allows you to utilize Network Watcher capabilities in that particular region.

1. Navigate to the Azure portal and search for "Network Watcher".
2. Choose "Create" to deploy a new Network Watcher instance.
3. Configure the instance settings, select UK South, UK West, and North Europe (If a Network Watcher has already been created in the NetworkWatcherRG Resource Group as part of a creation of other resources, the region will not appear to be selected as it already exists)

</details>

<details>
<summary>Scenario 9: Implement Azure Firewall</summary>

#### Task 1: Deploy an Azure Firewall instance named "azure-firewall" in the "uks_vnet" virtual network to be used in future.
1. Locate the "uks_vnet" virtual network in the Azure portal.
2. Choose "Firewalls" and then "Add Azure Firewall".
3. Configure the firewall settings with names and settings with the following options:
Resource Group: rg-uks-monitor
Instance Name: azure-firewall
Region: UK South
Availability Zone: Blank (This is an optional field, and you can add them to provide and test resiliency if you want to see how it works)
Firewall SKU: Basic
Firewall Policy: Create New, give it an identifiable name, and select UK South and Basic SKU.
Virtual Network: uks_firewall (This can be any name)
Address Space: 10.10.10.0/23
Subnet Name: AzureFirewallSubnet
Subnet: 10.10.10.0/26
Public IP Address: None fw-public-pip
Management Subnet Name: AzureFirewallManagementSubnet
Subnet Address Space: 10.10.11.0/26
Management Public IP Address: fw-management-pip
4. Click Tags, add any tags if you want to, and click on Create.
5. Confirm the Firewall has been created.
</details>

#### Some Links For Further Reference

**Virtual Network and Subnet Creation**
[Virtual Network Creation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/manage-virtual-network#create-a-virtual-network)
[Subnet Creation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-network-manage-subnet?tabs=azure-portal#add-a-subnet)

**Create Network Security Group Rule**
[Create a security rule in a Network Security Group](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/manage-network-security-group?tabs=network-security-group-portal#create-a-security-rule)

**Create VPN Gateway**
[Create VPN Gateway](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-network-peering-overview)
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/vpn-gateway/tutorial-create-gateway-portal

**Virtual Network Peering**
[Virtual Network Peering](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-network-peering-overview)

**Configure DNS Settings**
[Name resolution for resources in Azure virtual networks](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-name-resolution-for-vms-and-role-instances?tabs=redhat)


**Implement Service Endpoints**
[Virtual Network PService Endpoints](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-network-service-endpoints-overview)
[Virtual network service endpoint policies for Azure Storage](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-network-service-endpoint-policies-overview)

**Configure VPN Diagnostics**
[Troubleshoot Azure VPN Gateway using diagnostic logs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/vpn-gateway/troubleshoot-vpn-with-azure-diagnostics)

**Implement Network Watcher**
[What is Azure Network Watcher?](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/network-watcher/network-watcher-overview)

**Implement Azure Firewall**
[Deploy Azure Firewall - Basic](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/firewall/deploy-firewall-basic-portal-policy)
[Deploy Azure Firewall - Premium](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/firewall/premium-deploy)